# JDBC (Java Database Connectivity) 

The Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) API provides universal data access from the Java programming language. Using the JDBC API, you can access virtually any data source, from relational databases to spreadsheets and flat files.

The JDBC API is comprised of two packages:
1. java.sql
2. javax.sql

- java.sql package defines collection of interfaces and classes that allows programs to interactwith DB:
1. Drivers - Supports creation of data connection.
2. Connection - Rep. connection btwn client & SQL databse server.
3. DatabaseMetaData - Contains info about database server.
4. Statement - Includes methods for xecuting text queries.
5. PreparedStatement - Rep. precompiled & stored query.
6. CallableStatement - Execute SQL stored procedures.
7. ResultSet - Contains results of execution of select query.
8. ResultSetMetadata  - Contains info about ResultSet, including attribute names and types.

To use the JDBC API with a particular database management system, you need a JDBC technology-based driver to mediate between JDBC technology and the database.Before connecting to db, you must make **database driver** availbel for your app.

## CONNECTIONS

### Connecting to Database

Before you can access or modify data in database, you must connect to database.To get connection to db, you use the **getConnection()** method of **DriverManager** class to return Connection object.This method requires three arguments: URL for db, usernsme, password.
- URL consists of jdbc, subprotocol for Drivers(mysql, postgresql), host machine(localhost), port of db service, and name of db.

The getConnection method throws an SQLException, you need to handle the exception whenever you connect to db.

```java
 try{
    String url ="jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/dbName";
    String username="USERNAME";
    String password="PASWRD";

    Connection conn = DriverManager.getConnection(url,username, password);

 } catch(SQLException e){
    e.printStackTrace();
 }
```

## STATEMENTS

The object used for executing a static SQL statement to db server for execution and returning the results it produces.By default, only one ResultSet object per Statement object can be open at the same time. Therefore, if the reading of one ResultSet object is interleaved with the reading of another, each must have been generated by different Statement objects. All execution methods in the Statement interface implicitly close a current ResultSet object of the statement if an open one exists. 

### Retreiving Data

### Inserting, Update and Deleting Data




