# Java Persistence API

JPA(Java Persistence API) is an object-relational mapping specification that makes it easier to convert between the business objects and the relational database of an application.Also known as ORM.

JPA offers several features that make it easier to use than JDBC.

1. JPA can automatically create database tables based on relationships between business objects.
2. JPA can automatically convert between objects and rows in a relational database.
3. JPA can automatically perform joins to satisfy relationships between objects.

JPA runs on top of JDBC.As a result, it's compatible with any databse that has a JDBC driver.

There are several implementations of JPA.All of them follow the JPA specification.Full Java EE servers typically provide their own implementation of JPA.`Glassfish` uses `TopLink`, and `WildFly` uses `Hibernate`.When you use `Tomcat` you can choose the JPA implementation.Other implementation is `EcipseLink`.

## Entity and Entity Manager

When working with JPA, business objects are known as entities and are managed by an entity manager.In a full Java EE server such as Glassfish,the server provides a built-in entity manager that includes advanced features such as automatic transaction rollback.

To turn a normal business class into an entity, you code annotations in the class.These annotations specify how the class should be stored in a database,and they specify how one class relates to another.Because these classes are just plain old java objects(POJOs) with annotations,you can still use these classes without JPA.In that case, the annotations are ignored.
