# The Java Persistence Query Language

The Java Persistence query language defines queries for entities and their persistent state. The query language allows you to write portable queries that work regardless of the underlying data store.

The query language uses the abstract persistence schemas of entities, including their relationships, for its data model and defines operators and expressions based on this data model. The scope of a query spans the abstract schemas of related entities that are packaged in the same persistence unit. The query language uses an SQL-like syntax to select objects or values based on entity abstract schema types and relationships among them.

## Query Language Terminology

The following list defines some of the terms in query terminology:-

1. `Abstract schema`: The persistent schema abstraction (persistent entities, their state, and their relationships) over which queries operate. The query language translates queries over this persistent schema abstraction into queries that are executed over the database schema to which entities are mapped.
2. `Abstract schema type`: The type to which the persistent property of an entity evaluates in the abstract schema. That is, each persistent field or property in an entity has a corresponding state field of the same type in the abstract schema. The abstract schema type of an entity is derived from the entity class and the metadata information provided by Java language annotations.
3. `Backus-Naur Form (BNF)`: A notation that describes the syntax of high-level languages.
4. `Navigation`: The traversal of relationships in a query language expression. The navigation operator is a period.
5. `Path expression`: An expression that navigates to an entity's state or relationship field.
6. `State field`: A persistent field of an entity.
7. `Relationship field`: A persistent field of an entity whose type is the abstract schema type of the related entity.

## Creating Queries Using the Java Persistence Query Language

The `EntityManager.createQuery` and `EntityManager.createNamedQuery` methods are used to query the datastore by using Java Persistence query language queries.

The createQuery method is used to create dynamic queries, which are queries defined directly within an application's business logic:

```java
public List findWithName(String name) {
return em.createQuery(
"SELECT c FROM Customer c WHERE c.name LIKE :custName")
.setParameter("custName", name)
.setMaxResults(10)
.getResultList();
}
```

The createNamedQuery method is used to create static queries, or queries that are defined in metadata by using the javax.persistence.NamedQuery annotation. The
name element of @NamedQuery specifies the name of the query that will be used with the createNamedQuery method. The query element of @NamedQuery is the query:

```java
@NamedQuery(
name="findAllCustomersWithName",
query="SELECT c FROM Customer c WHERE c.name LIKE :custName"
)
```

Here's an example of createNamedQuery, which uses the @NamedQuery:

```java
@PersistenceContext
public EntityManager em;
...
customers = em.createNamedQuery("findAllCustomersWithName")
.setParameter("custName", "Smith")
.getResultList();
```
